Changelog 20.06 (#2267)
gitpod-io/website: src/lib/contents/changelog/2022-06-20.md

---
title: TOOD
excerpt: TODO
date: 2022-06-20
image: 2022-06-20.jpg
alt:
---

<script>
  import Contributors from "$lib/components/changelog/contributors.svelte";
</script>

TODO: Insert the featured changelog entry here.

> <p><Contributors usernames="" /></p>

Reviewer: Might be worth "pulling up" these 3 command line related things. The CLI is currently GA so no label to apply here, and no corresponding roadmap item as such...

```suggestion

**Command Line Interface Updates(`gp`)**

- [#10570](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10570) - Added a new command to gitpod-cli: "gp top" which displays workspace resources (CPU/Memory usage) <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,andreafalzetti,filiptronicek" />
- [#10538](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10538) - Added aliases for `gp port-forward` and `gp await-port` to `gp ports forward` and `gp ports await` <Contributors usernames="CuriousCorrelation,akosyakov,andreafalzetti,iQQBot,loujaybee,mustard-mh" />
- [#10619](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10619) - Add command `gp timeout extend` to extend timeout of current workspace <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,geropl,iQQBot,mustard-mh" />
```

### Fixes and improvements

- [#10450](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10450) - Added action to delete all inactive workspaces <Contributors usernames="david-bakin,easyCZ,gtsiolis,svenefftinge" />

> - [#10723](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10723) - Update description of `gp timeout` <Contributors usernames="iQQBot,mustard-mh" />

Author: Do you want to rename or remove that entry?

> - [#10723](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10723) - Update description of `gp timeout` <Contributors usernames="iQQBot,mustard-mh" />

Reviewer: Sorry, remove, not rename :)

- [#10704](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10704) - [SSH Gateway] remove priavte key requirement when ownerToken is provide <Contributors usernames="MrSimonEmms,akosyakov,aledbf,iQQBot" />
- [#10676](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10676) - Added action to delete all inactive workspaces <Contributors usernames="AlexTugarev,gtsiolis,svenefftinge" />
- [#10357](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10357) - Fix hanging "Prebuild in Progress" page. <Contributors usernames="AlexTugarev,easyCZ,geropl" />
- [#10570](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10570) - Added a new command to gitpod-cli: "gp top" which displays workspace resources (CPU/Memory usage) <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,andreafalzetti,filiptronicek" />

> - [#10538](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10538) - Added alias for forward and await in ports CLI namespace <Contributors usernames="CuriousCorrelation,akosyakov,andreafalzetti,iQQBot,loujaybee,mustard-mh" />

Reviewer: Slight amendment to be more specific, as some users might want to update their commands (note: _it is_ backwards compatible, so no action necessary). 

```suggestion
- [#10538](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10538) - Added aliases for `gp port-forward` and `gp await-port` to `gp ports forward` and `gp ports await` <Contributors usernames="CuriousCorrelation,akosyakov,andreafalzetti,iQQBot,loujaybee,mustard-mh" />
```

---
title: TOOD
excerpt: TODO
date: 2022-06-20
image: 2022-06-20.jpg
alt:
---

<script>
  import Contributors from "$lib/components/changelog/contributors.svelte";
</script>

<p><Contributors usernames="" /></p>

### Roadmap updates

<div class="mt-medium">

**Command Line Interface (`gp`)**

> - [#10570](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10570) - Added a new command to gitpod-cli: "gp top" which displays workspace resources (CPU/Memory usage) <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,andreafalzetti,filiptronicek" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#10570](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10570) - Added a new command to gitpod-cli: `gp top` which displays workspace resources (CPU/Memory usage) <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,andreafalzetti,filiptronicek" />
```

- [#10619](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10619) - Add command `gp timeout extend` to extend timeout of current workspace <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,geropl,iQQBot,mustard-mh" />

</div>

### Fixes and improvements

- [#10450](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10450) - Added action to delete all inactive workspaces <Contributors usernames="david-bakin,easyCZ,gtsiolis,svenefftinge" />
- [#10704](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10704) - SSH access no longer requires a private SSH key (removing forced password prompt) <Contributors usernames="MrSimonEmms,akosyakov,aledbf,iQQBot" />
- [#10676](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10676) - Added action to delete all inactive workspaces <Contributors usernames="AlexTugarev,gtsiolis,svenefftinge" />
- [#10357](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10357) - Fix hanging "Prebuild in Progress" page. <Contributors usernames="AlexTugarev,easyCZ,geropl" />

> - [#10570](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10570) - Added a new command to gitpod-cli: "gp top" which displays workspace resources (CPU/Memory usage) <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,andreafalzetti,filiptronicek" />
> - [#10538](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10538) - Added aliases for `gp port-forward` and `gp await-port` to `gp ports forward` and `gp ports await` <Contributors usernames="CuriousCorrelation,akosyakov,andreafalzetti,iQQBot,loujaybee,mustard-mh" />
> - [#10175](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10175) - Allow customize VMOptions for JetBrains backend server, by setting `INTELLIJ_VMOPTIONS` (also GoLand/PyCharm/PhpStorm) environment variable <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,iQQBot,yaohui-wyh" />
> - [#10619](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10619) - Add command `gp timeout extend` to extend timeout of current workspace <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,geropl,iQQBot,mustard-mh" />

Reviewer: What's the usual protocol @Cahllagerfeld ? Should we remove these if now highlighted? 

```suggestion
- [#10175](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10175) - Allow customize VMOptions for JetBrains backend server, by setting `INTELLIJ_VMOPTIONS` (also GoLand/PyCharm/PhpStorm) environment variable <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,iQQBot,yaohui-wyh" />
```

Author: Removed them 👍

- [#10562](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10562) - Add GITPOD_WORKSPACE_CLASS environment variable to workspaces to allow easier identification of the workspace class <Contributors usernames="Furisto,sagor999" />
- [#10352](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10352) - Fix: Don't skip prebuilds if .gitpod.yml has a 'before' task but no 'init' task <Contributors usernames="jankeromnes,jldec" />

> - [#10309](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10309) - Update dashboard navigation <Contributors usernames="AlexTugarev,gtsiolis" />

Reviewer: Should we add some more specifics here? 

```suggestion
- [#10309](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10309) - Update dashboard navigation, e.g. workspace list now shown on top right, breadcrumb component improvements <Contributors usernames="AlexTugarev,gtsiolis" />
```

Reviewer: Thinking, this was also highlighted in the last changelog, should we remove from here?

https://www.gitpod.io/changelog/gitpod-dashboard-improvements

---
title: TOOD
excerpt: TODO
date: 2022-06-20
image: 2022-06-20.jpg
alt:
---

<script>
  import Contributors from "$lib/components/changelog/contributors.svelte";
</script>

TODO: Insert the featured changelog entry here.

<p><Contributors usernames="" /></p>

### Fixes and improvements

- [#10450](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10450) - Added action to delete all inactive workspaces <Contributors usernames="david-bakin,easyCZ,gtsiolis,svenefftinge" />
- [#10744](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10744) - Fixed quota size regex allowing false positives <Contributors usernames="CuriousCorrelation,Furisto" />
- [#10695](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10695) - [preview-install] Add user-friendly output <Contributors usernames="Pothulapati,adrienthebo" />

> - [#10723](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10723) - Update description of `gp timeout <Contributors usernames="iQQBot,mustard-mh" />

Reviewer 2: We need to close the `

> - [#10704](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10704) - [SSH Gateway] remove priavte key requirement when ownerToken is provide <Contributors usernames="MrSimonEmms,akosyakov,aledbf,iQQBot" />

Reviewer: Hmmm, good point. I think this one is important enough to add it into the highlights, I'll add some additional information up top for this one... I'll need a little more time for that, will update this afternoon.

> - [#10704](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10704) - [SSH Gateway] remove priavte key requirement when ownerToken is provide <Contributors usernames="MrSimonEmms,akosyakov,aledbf,iQQBot" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#10704](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10704) - SSH access no longer requires a private SSH key (removing forced password prompt) <Contributors usernames="MrSimonEmms,akosyakov,aledbf,iQQBot" />
```

- [#10175](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10175) - - Allow customize VMOptions for JetBrains backend server, by setting `INTELLIJ_VMOPTIONS` (also GoLand/PyCharm/PhpStorm) environment variable <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,iQQBot,yaohui-wyh" />
- [#10619](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10619) - Add command `gp timeout extend` to extend timeout of current workspace <Contributors usernames="akosyakov,geropl,iQQBot,mustard-mh" />
- [#10608](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10608) - Update runc to v1.1.3 <Contributors usernames="Furisto,MrSimonEmms,aledbf,csweichel" />
- [#10577](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10577) - [Installer]: configure endpoint/region of registry S3 backing <Contributors usernames="MrSimonEmms,nandajavarma" />
- [#10582](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10582) - [kots]: move the openssh installation to the container image <Contributors usernames="MrSimonEmms,nandajavarma" />
- [#10604](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10604) - Revert "[werft]: disable publish to kots on main build" <Contributors usernames="MrSimonEmms,nandajavarma" />

> - [#10514](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10514) - use `ide.gitpod.io/blobserve` to serve blobfile <Contributors usernames="iQQBot,jeanp413,sagor999" />

Reviewer 2: Remove? cc @loujaybee

Reviewer: Yup, let's remove. 

@akosyakov / @iQQBot feel free to let us know, if you think there's a way to re-phrase this to be user-facing, otherwise let's remove it 🙏 

```suggestion
```

- [#10562](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10562) - Add GITPOD_WORKSPACE_CLASS environment variable to workspaces to allow easier identification of the workspace class <Contributors usernames="Furisto,sagor999" />
- [#10352](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10352) - Fix: Don't skip prebuilds if .gitpod.yml has a 'before' task but no 'init' task <Contributors usernames="jankeromnes,jldec" />
- [#10309](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10309) - Update dashboard navigation <Contributors usernames="AlexTugarev,gtsiolis" />

> - [#10475](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10475) - Update sigs.k8s.io/e2e-framework to v0.0.7 <Contributors usernames="aledbf,csweichel,easyCZ,jenting,mustard-mh,sagor999" />

Reviewer 2: Remove

> - [#10466](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/10466) - Update to new stable alpine version v3.16 <Contributors usernames="aledbf,easyCZ,jenting,mustard-mh,nandajavarma" />

Reviewer 2: Remove
